Final Report The purpose of the Final Report assignment is to provide you an opportunity to bring your project together into one complete, final document. You will be submitting a digital copy of your work and a final report to the Box folder that was created for you. Organize your document materials in pdf format (including scanned items) in the following order as one document: 1. Title Page Include project name, your name, sponsor, class and semester identification, etc. 2. Abstract Give a short (paragraph or two) overview of the project by revising your prospectus. 3. Report Write a narrative discussion of your project as a whole. See the detailed explanation below. 4. Design Specification If changes were made, include an addendum describing variations/changes in the design after the original submission of the design specification. Change the Design Specification from double-spaced format to single-spaced format. 5. Final Oral Presentation slides or other materials Convert your slides to handout form. Past students have had 2 to 4 slides per page, so long as they are legible. Item 3, the Report, is likely the only item that is totally new in this assignment. This component is a narrative document that reports your experiences in carrying out your project. In writing this report, consider such questions as: • How well were the project’s goals realized? • What “went right” and what “went wrong” in your design and implementation or in your interactions with your sponsor? • What would you do differently if you were to do the project again? • What did you learn from the project? • What are possible extensions, enhancements, or alternative approaches to the project that can be considered? etc.